
    CETI
        Tactile Internet with Human-in-the-Loop
        How will we learn in the future?
        How will robots help the old and the oldest-old?
        democratising skills on global scale
        enable humans to interact in quasi real-time with cyber-physical systems (CPS)
        in the real or virtual world over intelligent wide-area communication networks
        intelligent communication networks and adaptive CPS
        online mutual learning mechanisms
        To tackle these challenges
        conduct unique interdisciplinary research
        human–machine loop
        CeTI speaker Prof. Frank Fitzek
        looking for highly motivated researchers who are interested in joining the existing CeTI team
        In total we offer more than 50 positions in different scientific areas comprising
        vacancies 
        To strengthen the CeTI team various new positions are in preparation. 
        Centre for Tactile Internet with Human-in-the-Loop
        CeTI creates an international, equal-opportunity research environment to train the next generation of outstanding researchers
        socio-economic advancements by encouraging technology transfer to start-ups 
        https://www.ceti.one/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/facecircle_900.png
        https://www.ceti.one/impact/
        Eric Brachmann
        Benefitting all:  CeTI impact on society
        Special efforts will be undertaken to support young talents, to boost equal opportunities, and to create socio-economic impact.
        seamless human–robot collective in both real and virtual worlds
        How can we advance  training technologies?
        Develop secure and privacy-preserving   computing infrastructure and intuitive intervention and programming techniques.
        Secure tactile computing platform
        ultra-low latency world capturing and modelling.
        Expertise in cloud security and privacy; ScaDS and DLR centres for HPC;
        Develop new integrative multimodal interfaces.
        Wearables for adaptive and user-friendly multimodal interfaces.
        Haptic codecs
        10x–100x data reduction for massive multipoint interactions.
        The K rooms of key integrative technologies, which comprise haptic codecs (K1), intelligent networks for the tactile Internet (K2), augmented perception and interaction (K3), and human–machine co-adaptation (K4), generate input for the use-case rooms.
        generate input for the use-case rooms.
        https://www.ceti.one/research/
        The aim of the Tactile Internet with Human-in-the-Loop (TaHiL) 
        democratise access to skills and expertise to promote equity for people of different genders, ages cultural backgrounds, or physical limitations.
        intelligent wide-area-communication networks to promote equitable access
        remote work and learning environments for people of different genders, ages, cultural backgrounds
        or physical limitations. 
        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mdBHhS4FocM
        https://github.com/Chris-Annin/AR2
    CPEC 
    ...